	  	The Digital Collegian - Published independently by students at Penn State NEWS[ Wednesday, Jan. 18, 2006 ]Fraser Centre plans advanceBy Sara Ganim emailCollegian Staff WriterAs plans for the Downtown Improvement District's (DID) cineplex move forward, students envision improvements that may benefit them.Off-Campus Student Union President Ryan Bennington said that even though the housing included in the complex will not be for undergraduate students, he thinks downtown will benefit."Anytime you can get a new center, accessible by walking, that is a big move forward, especially in a town of this size," Bennington said.DID Director Teresa Sparacino said the DID is also applying for $3 million from the state capital budget for the project and $6 million total from various state sources."There are a ton of communities applying for that money," Sparacino said. "[Sen. Jake] Corman [R-Centre] knows that money is only going to go so far."She added that the DID has never relied on only one source for money, and she is confident the funding will come through.Corman's office could not be reached for comment by press time.The 140-foot condominium tower will be built at the intersection of West Beaver Avenue and South Fraser Street, and a three-story cinema will sit at the Calder Way and Fraser Street intersection. The complex has been named the Fraser Centre "for now," Sparacino said."It could very well be renamed ... we wanted to quit calling it [the cineplex] because it is so much more than that," she said.Sparacino said she hopes to see the construction, which would last one year, begin in late summer of 2006.As a student living off campus, JT Young (sophomore-psychology) said he thinks citizens of State College will gain from Fraser Centre."From a State College perspective, retail stores add wealth and jobs, and in a college town, we need these things," Young said.Retail will be available in the complex, and Sparacino said the developers have been talking to Urban Outfitters and some bookstores that appeal to the student market."Places to shop are good. There are 40,000 kids in State College, and 20,000 are girls, and girls shop," Nate Joline (sophomore-math) said. "Put a bar in. Bars are always cool."Sparacino said the plans for the Fraser Centre include condominium housing, but not student housing because the DID wants to improve the revenue stream for the downtown by urbanizing. The 12-story tower is meant to bring in wage earners and those who help sustain the economic base of downtown."The economy tanks when students go away, and we a need market that is 12 months out of the year so that we won't feel the pinch as much when students go on break," Sparacino said. "We need that in order to survive -- an economic base in the core downtown."John Wernly (junior-earth sciences) said he disagrees with not allowing students to live in the new condominiums because he said it reduces space for students who wish to live in the downtown area."People with jobs will have cars and can get around easier," Wernly said. "Students should be able to be near campus."Lynda La Spina (junior-English and political science) said she is happy to see a newer theater coming into the downtown State College area."The theater here is so bad, and the town is pretty small, there isn't much to do," La Spina said.The cinema will include 10 theaters, and although the company has not yet been established, the main goal is that the cinema provides an experience beyond going to the movies, Sparacino said.State College Borough Council President Cathy Dauler said the cinema would add to the downtown sense of community."The cinema will be beautiful, state-of-the-art and conveniently located," Dauler said. "It is not like people leave a movie located in the middle of a corn field and drive home. There will be all the amenities in the downtown."------------
	The Digital Collegian - Published independently by students at Penn State NEWS[ Thursday, Feb. 23, 2006 ]Residents respond to Fraser Centre projectThe project's organizers held a community forum last night. Locals in attendance expressed concerns about the economic feasibility of the cineplex, among other aspects of the plan.By Jessica Turnbull emailCollegian Staff WriterCORRECTION:This article misidentified Zoe Boniface, a State College Design Review Board member.She is the board's liaison to the State College Planning Commission.Also, a pull-out quote was incorrectly attributed to Planning Commission member Michael Freeman.Susquehanna Real Estate representative Jack Kay said, "Our marketing strategy is: This [project] is a Cabbage-Patch doll. You don't know you want it until you see it. Then you have to have it."Corrected On: 3/2/2006 @ 1627Organizers of the Fraser Centre project spoke at a community forum last night where they received support and criticism concerning the price of the $32 million plan and the types of retailers that will occupy the space.About 25 people attended the meeting, where Susquehanna Real Estate representatives Jack Kay and Tim Fulton set what they called an "ambitious" start date for late 2006 and emphasized their company's goal to work with the community to create a downtown entertainment focal point.The Fraser Centre involves three components: commercial space, a residential area that consists of about 54 loft-style condominium units, and a 10-screen cineplex. The condominium tower will be located at the corner of Fraser Street and Beaver Avenue, and the cineplex will sit at the intersection of Calder Alley and Fraser Street.Residents spoke with unease about the economic feasibility of the cineplex, which accounts for $10 million of the total cost, and about whether the entire project could continue without the theater.State College Planning Commission member Zo‘ Boniface also mentioned the possibility of a new cinema on Lowes Boulevard, which might saturate the movie market.Kay responded to concerns over the price tag on the cinema by citing the high standards the company holds for their buildings, which he said is evident through past projects including Susquehanna Commerce Center and the Lofts in York."Our goal is to create a high-quality project," Kay said. "When we do a nice building, the next guy does a nice building and the standards are raised."The company does not want to create a business that fails in three years, so creating a cinema that is convenient for Penn State students is important to the success of the project, Kay said.He addressed concerns over the price of the condominiums, which would likely sell for an average price of $300,000, by explaining that the projected market would not be students but would consist of alumni, young professionals and Penn State employees who would contribute to the downtown economy.Fulton said the first two stories of the commercial building would include several retail spaces, which could be both local and national chains.Michael Freeman, a Planning Commission member, said he would prefer a bookstore as one of the anchor retail spaces in the project."We have a problem in this town with commercial uses in our town being filled with things that don't contribute to the community," Freeman said. "People want to be able to spend the day downtown, going to movies, bookstores and shopping."He said he went door to door in the borough and spoke to about 70 households. Only four had reservations regarding the Fraser Centre."Our marketing strategy is: This [project] is a Cabbage-Patch doll," Kay said. "You don't know you want it until you see it. Then you have to have it."-----------------
Fraser Centre funding hits snag(State College) Centre Daily Times,  April, 2007  by Adam SmeltzSTATE COLLEGE -- Faced with a shortfall in hoped-for state money, organizers of Fraser Centre project are looking to another government option for help.The option, called tax-increment financing, temporarily would redirect a portion of the new real estate tax revenue generated by the downtown property.That money, instead of reaching government coffers, would go toward debt payments on the complex.Without help from tax-increment financing, construction of Fraser Centre will not be possible, downtown leaders told the Centre Daily Times editorial board last week."It is truly at a standstill until this issue is decided," Teresa Sparacino, the Downtown Improvement District executive director, said later.